[country music]
[Peter] Doc, if the grid goes out
and everything stops…
We're good. We could probably
hang out for at least two years.
-Two years?
-Two years.
So we're going to get into it today,
but this is sort of off-grid 2.0.
-Right.
-You're not living in a cabin.
You're living a modern day life.
Live normal. Be on the grid.
Luxuries, Uber Eats, whatever you want.
But at the same time
be able to flip a switch
and go off-grid if you need to.
I'm trying to get away from gas.
My chainsaw is electric.
The mower is electric.
This cart is electric
even though I have gas.
People think that
you have to own a hundred acres,
but we lived in neighborhoods
all of our life
and I've always done this sort of
backup hybrid where I've been prepared.
My motto is prep and forget.
Go live your life and enjoy
because you're already prepared.
You understand how little
you have to have to survive basically.
Not survive, but to get by.
Doc, one question here.
Someone's invading the property.
You get up there.
-Sniper positions.
-Your sniper positions.
So I've got four of these
all through behind the pond.
We'll take a run back there
and take a look at that area,
but we've got four of these
deer stands up here.
-Oh, these are deer stands?
-These are deer stands.
So every morning
during deer season I wake up at 4:30.
I guess you call it deer hunting.
For me, it's more deer watching.
I mean, I don't…
we only take a couple deer the whole year,
but I'll watch thousands come through here.
There's Bubba. [laughs]
He was mean to all the girls,
so he got kicked out of the chicken house.
All these fields up here, it's a hybrid
where they're all planted for the wildlife.
You can see the feeders up here
and this is all planted for the wildlife,
plus the chickens eat it, plus if you
ever want to come out here yourself…
That's Kale.
So if you want to eat kale,
you can get kale, radish, turnip,
all these fields in here.
In fact, there's a purple top turnip
up there that's that big.
You can come out here
and eat any of this all winter long.
[Doc laughs]
[rooster crows]
And that's one way I think
everyone can look at it, it's fun to do.
Old school prepping,
it used to be about fear and anxiety.
Now it's just you have fun with it
and you know you're prepared.
Fear's not driving this?
No, not at all.
'Cause I'm done.
I have nothing to worry about anymore.
This actually is what
the roads used to look like in 1855.
This is what you traveled down.
-How many acres in total?
Total of 40.
So as an example, in 1996,
Hurricane Fran hit us in Raleigh,
where we were living.
We were without power for 12 days.
I had my daughter
lying in front of my big fireplace
'cause trees were falling down
all around our neighborhood.
We woke up and half the houses
in my neighborhood were destroyed.
No power for 12 days
and I wasn't prepared.
That was sort of the thing to say,
we'll call it a gray swan event,
where it's a possibility
but you don't take it seriously.
You don't plan for it.
I've been through five
different hurricanes.
I've been through COVID.
I've been through 9-11.
I mean at 63
you've been through enough crap
where let's just prepare a little bit.
-So this stuff marked you?
-Yeah, absolutely.
It's just good life experience.
[Doc chuckles]
The guy that used to own this,
he had goats out here
and I found that in the woods.
I've worked since I was a teenager.
I've worked for almost 50 years.
And the last thing I want to do is retire
into a job that I have to work non-stop.
True off-grid living? Dude, it's hard.
I mean, it's a lot of work.
I've seen a bit more of it
actually poking up
where people live in a modern way.
They're not in the middle of nowhere.
You're what 25 minutes from the…
Major towns, major cities.
If I want to go to Kroger
it's 25 minutes down the road.
Home Depot, Lowe's,
it's all around me, medical centers.
Do you think most of us are reactive.
-You're taking a pro active approach.
-Yeah.
I'm in the reactive.
If the grid goes down for three days,
I mean I could maybe last a week.
I don't know. Right?
The average…
90% of households in this country,
after four days, five days,
they pretty much
start to run out of everything.
And what's interesting about that
is we don't learn.
So we went through COVID
and we just, we don't learn to prepare.
And people can just do
a little bit of preparation work
and have seven to 14 days.
That's all you need, really, in most cases.
When we bought this,
you couldn't see the pond.
We took out about 20 trees here.
Trees destroy your pond berm.
We had to take that down, rebuild that.
And then this is just,
we've stocked it twice.
We just… sort of a
recreational little fishing thing.
-You're catching fish out of here?
-Oh yeah.
I've caught nine pound bass out of here.
[Doc] So house,
we're going to go into at the end.
-But you redid this completely, right?
-Right.
To keep it family friendly,
I called it the crap hole
because it was,
it was just a piece of crap.
It was abandoned
for over a year and a half.
The guy actually, who was in poor health
actually died from COVID
and the family put it on the market.
And thank goodness
this place was a disaster.
You can maybe put up
a picture of what it looked like.
It was just junk.
There was junk all through here.
took a year
just to clean everything off of here.
Now, I wanted to put
a little sort of guest cabin over here.
So if my brother
wants to come up and deer hunt for a week
or worst case scenario,
if the house were to burn down
you could actually live over here
while you took care of your house.
-You're married, Doc, right?
Yeah. Older kids, they're gone, grandkids.
When this got dropped in here,
there was nothing but spray foam
and 2 x 4s on the inside.
-Okay.
And then we redid the whole thing.
Security lock on every door I own.
-Ahhh. You did a great job.
We got an air conditioning,
microwave, refrigerator. Look at the view.
-The view is… your artwork let's call it.
The solar panels.
And then this like 1840 table.
Look the nails in it are all square.
-It's a great fusion of rustic but modern.
And that's kind of…
I want luxury and I want nice,
but at the same time…
-You want these old floors.
-Right.
What are these?
They're old spikes from plows.
I just found them, I just loved them,
and I started buying them.
And they just make
the coolest little accents.
-They are cool.
-This is sort of the brain center.
We don't really have a good storage space.
-Of the whole operation?
Of the power station.
This is the power station brain center.
So this is your solar coming into here?
Solar comes into this battery system.
This is the latest and greatest
DPUX from EcoFlow.
I think it's better
for most people as it's portable.
So if you ever move,
if you ever sell your house,
you just load this up
and take it with you.
This is 12,000 watts,
6,000 watt hours per battery.
That's 60,000 watt hours of storage.
And then this drives
12,000 watts over to the house.
I have a 2-2-2-4 huge electric cable
that runs underground
back over to the house.
Okay.
And I'll show you the switch over there.
This actually from…
I don't understand this world at all.
It looks quite simple.
It's very simple and that's why more
and more people are going to this system
versus you can do a DIY solar system
with your inverters
and your batteries and your wiring.
Probably for maybe
half the price of this
or not maybe half.
But the simplicity of this,
you put it together,
You can start with two batteries.
-Just do two batteries.
-Yep.
Just do two batteries. It's on wheels,
and plug it in, you back up to your house.
I'll show you over here. I have a $100
battery system with a little solar panel.
If you want to go this
with the solar panels,
you're going to dump $35,000 into it.
-For all of this?
-All this and that.
-And the panels?
-Yep.
With this system because it's modular,
you can start off with the…
The main head
and two batteries you can start off,
I think it's about $7,000
for two batteries.
And then you just keep
adding batteries, and you bump it up.
Solar panels really
are not that expensive to be honest.
I thought it would be so much more.
People think it's gonna be
$80,000 to $100,000.
And that's when you have
a company come out and do the installation.
-You did this?
-Right.
-Okay.
-Matter of fact, if you come over here,
you can see we didn't spend a whole bunch
of money on the solar racks over here.
-That's pretty straightforward.
-Yep.
It's a four by four system with these.
These things are cheap and it's just…
-And they don't have to be straight.
They can be on a slope like this.
They're on a slope and they're not perfect.
They're a little bit not aligned.
But Jesse, my guy, and I
came over here and did this in two days
and put up the panels and wired it up.
And is it really professional looking?
No, but it works.
When it comes to water,
we have multiple sources.
So the pond is actually
spring fed from over here.
This is the original
shallow well from the house
that served the house for 30 years.
You can't really see it right now
because it's covered with insulation.
But it's just a 30 inch wide
by 30 feet deep.
That's all you have to go down here,
30 feet?
Almost all your shallow wells
are done this way.
The problem with shallow wells is
they pick up everything that's bad
from around here.
Okay.
And they have a tendency to
really have a lot of bacteria.
I run my irrigation systems
off of it in my hose now.
-We don't use it for the house.
-What about your drinking water?
We'll go up here
and I'll show you that system.
This is where
you better have a checkbook ready
because the septic system back here
was actually concrete, the tubes.
Okay.
We had to put in a brand new septic system.
Okay, now you're dropping 15 grand
on a new septic system and leach field.
You need a well.
Well, you've got to drill down
for a deep well for clean water,
you've got to drill 600 feet.
You've got 600 feet.
Your new well is going to pop you 20 grand.
That's clean water, no filtration.
You can literally drink it.
It smells like rock.
It has kind of a sulfur rock
'cause it's coming through the granite.
-Okay.
-But it's super, super clean water.
Now, what I do,
it gets a little bit confusing here, but
inside here I have
a multistage filtration system.
So…
-Do you have a homeless guy living here?
That is the pressure tank.
-Okay.
-And I keep for freezing.
And it keeps it cold
in the summertime and warm in the winter.
But the well comes up here.
It goes through a pre-filter.
Then it goes through a carbonized filter.
Then it goes to a post-filter.
And then it goes to this UV filter.
And the UV kills
any kind of thing that's living,
like viruses or whatever.
Then it goes to the house.
-Is it stripping of all its minerals?
-No.
It's still, it's still very mineral.
Matter of fact, that's one of the problems
with wells like this
is you pull up a whole bunch of calcium.
And so you have to
constantly clean your shower
'cause you have those hard water spots.
-So this, you said
it was 20 G to put this in?
You're dropping 20 G in any well out here
that's about 600 feet.
'Cause that's just…
-So yeah, I wasn't even thinking of water.
Most people don't
because they're on city water.
-So you, you're purely on your own well.
Yes.
-How do you know
that's gonna be good five, 10 years out?
Because what we did
is we put in a backup well.
-So behind my…
-Of course you did.
-Behind, see that little yellow shack?
-Okay.
-In between the container and whatever?
-Yeah.
That's another 600 foot well.
So I had them drill a backup well
because here's the problem.
People don't understand.
If this goes bad,
I may be a month without it trying
to get a guy out here to fix this thing.
-Okay. So rookie question.
Doc, you have a well here.
You have a well not far away.
Isn't it pulling from
pretty much the same place?
No,
because when you go through,
it's basically you're drilling
through cracks in the rock.
-Okay.
And you get different water rates.
It's weird how it works.
It's basically
you're pulling from different cracks.
So if this one, main thing is
what happens if this pump fails
and you're a week without water
'cause the guy can't come out and fix it.
All I have to do now
is there's a switch in here.
I flip the switch and that well actually
feeds all the way down here to this.
And now that well feeds
the house through that system.
You can do something like this
very reasonable
if you just buy a few acres
and you just keep it pretty modest.
Yes, I spent a lot of money,
but my wife and I live very modestly.
I can tell you how many times
we've been out to eat
in the past 10 years,
probably on two hands.
-Seriously?
We don't go out to eat. We don't travel.
We don't drink. We don't do drugs.
-No date nights?
No, we're very much
homebodies and I worked,
gosh, the past 10 years, I worked
seven days a week, 10 to 12 hours a day.
-What were you in?
-Just whatever.
-Okay.
-I was an entrepreneur my whole life.
-So I've always been an entrepreneur.
Ups and downs.
That's part of the experience of
getting your butt whipped,
losing everything and having to rebuild.
Lose everything, having to rebuild.
It's that life experience.
It's the same thing.
Going through hurricanes.
Going through COVID.
Unfortunately, we're in a society
that doesn't learn a whole lot. [chuckles]
We don't learn from the past lessons.
We forget very easily.
-You come to tell me we're not
having the conversations about COVID
and like what we could do
different next time?
Yeah.
Those aren't really creeping up
in society so much?
Let's forget it, right?
Yeah, it's over. Forget about it.
But I think that's just a way of the mind
wanting to like get rid of
anything that's negative,
purge the negative, move forward,
be optimistic about tomorrow.
And you need to have a balance, right?
Because you don't want to
constantly be in this prepper state
'cause then you're
waiting for the apocalypse.
Yes. You're walking around
with an AR, bulletproof vest,
and camouflage,
and that's old school prepping.
There was a show on called…
Doomsday Preppers
that used to be on Discovery or something.
-Yeah.
That is gone where this is what it is.
You prep and forget.
-Okay. One thing about the prepper,
like the true preppers,
whenever I come into them
or seen them on videos,
they don't look that happy.
It doesn't look like that much fun.
-They're always worried.
-Right?
And I do feel too,
if you're the prepped guy,
you're doing the bunker
in New Zealand or wherever.
Some of the oligarchs
are doing that, right?
It's like almost you're a target
because your security eventually
is going to have more fealty
towards their family.
-Right?
-Right.
And you're like
that's the guy with resources
and everyone goes for that guy.
And I have…
I guess you could take it
to whatever level you want.
So if you're talking about
hurricanes and thunderstorms
and something like a COVID,
you're not going to have people
coming out here
hunting for your food type deal.
If you're talking about
like an EMP or solar flare
grid down on large scale,
that's when you got to worry about it.
There are physical things we've done
out here that I won't talk about. [laughs]
-You got booby traps?
No, not booby traps.
But being an old Marine,
I sort of look at this strategically,
and if you'll notice,
you can't access my house
without an open area in between.
-So I can see…
-You thought this out?
Yeah. We took out,
we opened up the area all in between
just so I could have clear view
of what's coming.
And just to open it up too for,
you know,
sunlight and everything else
and trees falling on the house.
But it's just something
that you just think about is
you got 80 yards
worth of open area all around.
-So you were in the Marines?
-Yes.
-So you have the skills?
And you know how to fire a gun?
If you're up in that field
and you're trying to hurt me or my family,
it doesn't matter how far away you are.
-What kind of arsenal do you have?
-I'll show you a couple of them.
Out here, everyone has
sort of the same thing.
We have
handguns, we have hunting rifles,
and then we usually have
plinking rifles, like ARs or something.
I'll show you that.
But like in my cart right now,
everywhere I go, there's a 9 millimeter
within 10 feet of me.
-Seriously?
-If it's not on my hip.
-There's one right there.
-Are you worried or something?
No.
I had two coyotes up in my field.
If it's up here and they're trying to
get into my chicken house,
that's the main thing.
I got you. Don't mess with the chickens.
All right, guys, I want to talk to you
about something happening
behind the scenes to all of us.
Our personal data
gets hoovered up by data brokers
and sold all across the Internet.
So earlier this year I found
a solution to this problem, Incogni.
Incogni is a personal information
removal service
that wipes yourself from the Internet.
So we have the right
to remove ourselves from these lists.
But to try to do this one by one
would be a full-time job.
I started using Incogni in February
and I've seen exceptional results.
Here's my dashboard where I've been removed
from 1,448 data brokers.
And you can see here
all of the data brokers
that have tried to poach
my personal information.
For me, I currently have 237
that are being removed.
So what you need to do
is sign up to Incogni
and they'll do the consistent,
constant, in-the-background work
of removing you from these websites.
So I've received way less spam emails,
spam calls, junk mail,
which removes
one of life's biggest annoyances.
And since this is a game like whack-a-mole,
you can't just do this once and be done.
It's a constant process and that's why
having Incogni working 24-7, 365
in the background is crucial.
I strongly suggest
getting Incogni's unlimited plan,
which gives the option to request
custom removals from any website.
There's a huge discount if you use my link
down below in the description
to get 60% off an annual plan.
Take back your personal data with Incogni.
Click on the link below,
incogni.com/santenello,
to get 60% off their annual plan.
Now back to the story.
[latch clanks and opens]
Kind of dark in here, but this is
at least a whole winter's worth,
if not one and a half
winter's worth of firewood.
I have all my chicken feed.
Corn for the deer.
-So you're doing wood heat?
Just supplemental.
I have a five-ton Trane heat pump,
but…
my wife always complains 'cause she's hot,
so I get near the wood stove.
You'll see my Vermont casting stove.
I'll have it going.
-Yeah, I grew up in Vermont,
so that wood would last you like…
-A couple weeks.
So here
on the barn, there's solar panels
up here we just put on.
-Is this good here, Doc?
-Yeah.
So we just put those up.
And they're not that strong.
They're old ones I had.
Here's a good example.
Here's a backup battery system,
kind of like that one.
If you just get this one, 1,600 bucks.
-That's it?
That's it. 1,600 bucks.
That puts off 6,000 watts.
So this whole place is, if I want to,
I could just off-grid this whole place.
And you've mentioned you make videos,
and I want to let the audience know,
Doc is also a YouTuber.
Has quite a collection of videos.
From this type of stuff, to lawn care…
Gardening, you name it, how-to…
Ultimate polymath,
Doc does everything, renaissance man.
I'm going to leave Doc's link down below.
What's a really…
[rooster crows]
[Peter] You guys have
a twisted relationship, huh?
He's so weird.
Now,
I did something really cool that I think
your viewers
will actually find interesting.
AI is eventually going to kill us.
But at the same time,
you need to get into it.
You need to use it.
Because, especially if you want to do
this kind of prepping stuff,
you can take a picture
of your solar panel label
and ask AI, say, "How do I hook this up?"
"How do I hook this up?"
And what are the voltage requirements?
It's an amazing tool
for if you want to be prepared
or do that kind of stuff.
-Bubba, what are you doing, buddy?
-Bubba's sort of like a dog, huh?
He's just like a dog, man.
He just follows me around.
-Does Bubba peck?
He doesn't like to be touched.
But when he goes like this,
he'll lean up against you like a dog.
Okay, Doc, you're worried about AI.
You think it's going to ruin us completely.
Oh, it is going to ruin us
completely eventually.
But in the meantime,
it's one of the greatest tools you can use.
So we have a nice window
is what you're saying?
Yeah. So what I did was
I built a page on my website.
And what people can do,
I just posted a video.
They go there,
if you go put your street…
-Uh-huh.
Your city and state,
the AI agent on there
will do an evaluation of your area.
And it will tell you
what are the threats,
what's your problem
when the grid goes down on day…
And it will describe
what happens day 1 through 3,
day 7, day 15 and day 30.
And it gives people a view
what would happen
if the supply chain and grid went down.
It's actually a really cool little tool.
In a city, 72 hours, pure chaos, right?
Yes. Three or four days.
If you're in a city,
you need to figure a way to get out.
[chuckles]
This wasn't here, obviously.
The guys that put this up,
put this building up in six hours.
-Were they Amish?
-No, they were Mexican.
-[laughter]
Close enough.
-Six hours they put this up?
-Six hours.
It's just like a kit barn or something?
They spec it out,
they build it at the factory,
they bring it out and put it in.
It was crazy.
-What's the price of a barn like this?
This thing will run you about eight grand.
The foundation costs just as much.
When you have a cement thing poured.
So you got about
eight grand in your cement,
eight grand in the building,
but as you can see, desperately needed.
This automatically plants,
cuts into the ground and seeds the corn.
So we do use this for corn planting.
Do you… [rooster crows]
Do you think like 20 years out,
hopefully you're in great shape then,
but when you can no longer do this stuff?
That's the whole point of this is…
I don't think my kids want this place.
They're not willing to work
hard enough to maintain it.
So I'll eventually, when I decide,
I get to a point where I say,
"Hey, I can't do this anymore."
Then what I'll do is I'll probably
just end up selling the place. So…
But no, I don't think the kids would want
to come out here and work this hard.
What do they think?
What do family members, old friends,
do they think Doc
lost his mind a little bit?
Oh, no, 'cause I mean,
actually my son,
after he graduated from college,
spent a year out here
helping me, took a year off.
Everybody that comes out here loves it.
Grandkids will come out,
they'll feed the chickens and…
[chickens clucking]
I get 32 eggs a day right now
and it'll probably go up from there.
-32 a day?
-A day.
How many are you eating?
-Just a handful. I give away the rest.
I give away dozens and dozens of eggs
to all my neighbors, everyone.
-This is my scratch grain that they eat.
-Okay.
These are the Black fly larvae.
And then they have chicken crumbles.
The larvae's really good
with nutrients or what's…
Yeah, protein, calcium,
basically supplements where
they would normally be digging up worms.
It's also important,
I think, to have greens.
Since I can't free range out here
because of predators,
I'll come out here and I'll pick…
maybe we'll do it a little bit later.
I'll pick some turnips and radishes.
If I throw them in here it's like piranhas.
They just come attack them.
They just absolutely love them.
You can see some of the old root stuff
in here where they've been eating them.
I grabbed a video clip,
maybe wifey can put it up
since she's your head editor,
of it shows the tomatoes out here,
all the tomatoes.
We had a thousand tomatoes
that we harvested from the vines.
This garden, when it was all here,
one year we got close to 3,000 pounds
of produce out of this one garden.
And that's everything from zucchinis,
to cucumbers, to tomatoes, to peppers.
I had pepper plants out here.
I know I had
250 red and green peppers at one point.
We'll just show the food area.
But you can see
that's not that much of an area.
So if someone had maybe half an acre
at the old house where we were
I had a huge amount of produce
and we only had half an acre.
So people can put in
a garden in their backyard.
What's the minimal amount you need
to be somewhat this off-grid,
be on solar,
let's just say grow your own food,
your vegetables, your chickens at least?
There's a guy…
There's a YouTuber online
and I think they do it on like…
They grow tons of produce
and they're on like two acres.
So you think two acres
would be the good bare minimum.
If you do nothing but grass obviously
and have a little garden
then it's not gonna work.
But if you decide to actually
take a big portion of that yard and do…
-It doesn't take much.
-What's two acres in this part of Georgia?
It depends. Uh…
Right now,
housing and land is so screwed up.
But you could probably go
a little more rural and probably pick it up
for probably $10,000 an acre.
Okay. So 20 grand.
What do you think? You set up a small home.
I mean, these are all rough numbers,
but let's set a minimalistic setup.
Your home is 1,500 square feet.
Simple, straightforward, the whole shebang.
What do you think that would cost?
God,
what an impossible number to come up with.
I'll tell you what I would prefer to do.
What I prefer to do is find…
is to find an old house just like I did.
Find a piece of crap house
that has the infrastructure.
So you don't have to pay for power lines
to be run. That's real expensive.
You don't have to pay for your septic.
That's already in.
Your well's already in.
You just need to go in
and fix up the house.
That's the ideal situation.
But you've got to be a do-it-yourselfer.
True, but I didn't do that.
I hired a great contractor
to do that whole house.
-And when you say
that's going to be a bit confusing
'cause we haven't talked about it,
but you're on solar.
-But you're also tapped into the grid.
-Yeah.
That's your setup
because during normal times…
-We just live a normal life.
-It's just easier to do it that way?
-Yeah.
-Why not go off your solar completely?
I don't know.
I don't have to worry about it.
A lot of times
when you do have a solar system,
you do have to sort of think a little bit
because you don't want to run…
[rooster crows]
You don't want to be running
your dryer and your dishwasher
and the oven all at the same time.
You've got to be doing that during the day
when there's solar really.
That's what you want.
I just don't want to think about that.
And my power out here
is not that expensive.
The whole place, I pay about $300 a month.
So for me, it's more of it's a backup.
[Doc] I've got a back loop here.
This is the back 20 acres of my property
that's pretty secluded.
I pretty much every day during deer season,
it's kind of my retirement religion,
I get up in the deer stand
and I'm not really deer hunting.
I'm deer watching.
And I just enjoy a couple of hours
by myself up in one of these stands.
-So you're basically
a 12-year-old at this point, Doc.
-Yeah.
-You've got forts out here.
-You're hanging out in your tent.
-[Doc chuckles]
That's probably 30 years old,
that little deer stand or something.
-You just stand up there?
-That's the way they used to hunt.
No. That's just… That's been here.
What we built,
we call them our redneck skyscrapers.
[laughter]
Oh, that door's open. I've gotta go
close that door otherwise it'll rot.
Got to clean up all the trash.
-What is this?
-Doe pee..
-Can I check it out up there, Doc?
-Yeah. Sure.
Let me have you hold the camera right here.
[Peter] Okay. So…
[Doc] Let's see how athletic he is.
-You just go up here, Doc.
There's some handles
to get up in there, so be careful.
And then you're just sitting up here?
-Yeah. You would turn around,
and you'd look out the back over there,
and that's where you're watching.
-Oh, let me see. I'll bring the camera up.
-Okay.
-Careful.
So, Doc's saying you sit up here.
That's a nice chair, Doc.
Quite comfortable chair
then you just look for wildlife.
[Doc] I'll see
thousands of deer every year.
Thousands.
We may take two or three deer,
and they're always bucks.
-We don't take any of the does.
-And you eat it?
Yeah. I have probably 200 pounds
of venison in the freezer in that shed.
What are property taxes like in Georgia?
Like to have 100 acres, is that
a super expensive thing to do every year?
No.
Property tax really isn't that bad here.
I need to fix that feeder.
Why is this thing so tipped?
Because if you're in
a high property tax state,
just to exist out here,
even if you have no debt
is going to cost a lot every year.
Right, and that's the thing.
I mean, a lot of people don't understand,
just because you live off grid,
your expenses don't stop.
I mean, did you pay cash for your land,
or do you have a mortgage?
You have taxes. You have insurance.
You want to have insurance on your place?
The expenses don't stop,
and that's one of the things
I think a lot of people miss
with the off grid lifestyles.
You still got to have money.
You want a well?
Where is that 20 grand going to come from?
You want a tractor?
That tractor is $30,000.
Where is that money going to come from?
-You would not have been able
to do this at 25 years old.
No.
-It took you working your life
to get to this point.
Whole life to get to this point.
Now, what people can do is
they can pull this little pieces out,
but again,
when we lived in the neighborhood,
we still did preparation.
We still did some of that stuff.
-Yeah.
But here, this is completely different.
This takes a checkbook.
[Peter] You have your cameras.
So I have artificial intelligence
that do automatic tracking
and tell you what is coming across.
Those artificial intelligence cameras
will tell you if it's a vehicle,
person, or an animal.
Those are positioned at my gates
and all around the property.
These are cellular game cameras
all throughout the woods,
so I can monitor if there's any predators,
but mainly for deer movement.
But if someone comes through my property
in the woods,
it'll send me a picture.
I'll get pictures of us riding on our cart.
[Peter] Do you mind me asking
how much you got this whole place for?
So the entire property was right at $400.
-Wow. What year?
-Four years ago.
-For the whole place?
-The whole place.
-But it didn't look like this.
-It was a hell hole.
-But just that amount of land is amazing.
Yeah. And especially this close to a town
where you're not isolated, you know?
-Yeah.
So…
here, I wanted…
the best way to describe this,
I think, is just country comfortable.
-Okay.
I didn't want to have to
take off my boots when I came in here.
You go from a field,
you go from hunting, whatever,
you don't want to walk into a luxury.
It's nice, but at the same time,
it's country comfortable.
Very open.
These beams are probably
one of my favorite.
We put a mile of shiplap
on all the ceilings,
but these beams,
these came from a tobacco barn, 1797,
and this is exactly how
they came out of the barn.
Just like this.
And we put them up
just to use 'em, all the seams,
and I've got them all over.
They're great.
-Oh, you did a great job here.
-This is beautiful.
-Kitchen area.
You're always near one,
as you said earlier.
I'm always near one.
I'm always within arm's reach of something.
I was in the Marine Corps,
but I was also criminal investigations
and did a lot of drug work,
so I always have something on me.
This is, I guess now you have to…
politically, you have to call it
the primary, not the master.
This was that old nasty garage.
And then in here, we put this in.
-This is sort of the bath, the master bath.
-Oh yeah, fantastic.
But it's not opulent.
It's just nice.
And that's wifey's corner?
Yeah. That's all wifey's stuff.
I have my own…
-There's an alarm that goes off
when you walk in?
Yes. I'm not allowed in there.
And it's funny because upstairs,
I have my office
and there's a guest bedroom.
During hunting season,
I'll sleep up there half the time
because I wake up at 4:30
and she and the dogs are like, hm-mm.
So I'll go sleep upstairs
so I don't wake them up
at 4:30 in the morning.
This was a bathroom
and so we didn't have a place for a pantry.
-So you don't have
any huge rations of food?
Not here.
-But on the property somewhere? Okay.
-On the property.
-And you're saying two years?
-Oh, yeah. Easy.
[Doc] This was disgusting up here.
There was so much crap up here.
This is some of my photography, by the way.
-Oh, beautiful.
-This is where the magic happens.
-What are these guns here?
-These are both just AR frames.
This one,  a lot of people say,
oh, it's a military…
I actually hunt with this gun
over here sometimes too.
Just a little plinking gun.
And this is actually… I mean, this is…
In our area,
most people have a plinker,
a long bolt gun for deer hunting,
and handguns.
It's just normal. All these deer
came from this property here.
-Georgia is a pro-gun-friendly state?
-Oh, absolutely.
You can't go to a property here
and not have people own guns.
Now, the mistake that some people make…
I know people that buy guns,
and guns, and guns, and guns, and guns.
That's not me.
I just have what I use.
And they put too much money into their guns
and there's no other infrastructure around.
Huge mistake.
-You have the infrastructure?
-I have the infrastructure.
-And a lot you can't talk about.
-Right.
I won't talk about yet. [chuckles]
So, do you think that helps
with home invasions?
When you're in a place like this,
rural Georgia.
-Everyone knows everyone has guns.
-Yes.
Does it make you think twice?
If you go to my gate,
my wife is like, oh, we need to do
something fancier on that.
I said, look. I want to make it
look like a redneck with a gun
lives at the end of this driveway.
And if you come down
this driveway 900 feet…
-But you sort of are Doc.
-Yeah.
You have a redneck ethos.
Embrace it. [laughs]
So, the whole point is,
people do not pull down my driveway.
'Cause they know in this area,
if you come down this driveway,
there's going to be someone
with a gun at the end.
Now, that's true for all my neighbors.
I mean…
So, you'd say property crime is low here?
I…
I'll tell you this.
My wallet and my keys have never left
my truck, and my truck's never locked.
-This is where Doc runs his operations.
-That's the magic happens.
The magic happens looking out at the pond
saying, I gotta finish up on this project.
-And then I'm going fishing.
-[Doc chuckles]
And at least twice a day,
I go fishing just to relax.
But a lot of people ask…
Here's a good example.
A lot of people ask,
"Hey, you got such a nice house,
why do you have window units?"
If you've ever been in a hurricane
with a power outage,
and you want to run,
you can actually shut off all your HVAC,
close your bedroom door,
have it freezing cold,
and this thing only pulls 700 watts.
-Okay. So, you can compartmentalize
in a home, right?
When these catastrophes happen?
-Absolutely.
-So, you could just move it to your office.
-Yep.
-And there's a guest bedroom.
-Guest bedroom.
Another bath.
So, we've got two full baths up here.
Stay to the right.
I can't believe the inspector
allowed these stairs.
We were allowed to keep them,
'cause they don't really meet code.
What we can do,
we'll actually take the property off grid.
Let's go out here first.
Let me show you how this works.
Big battery bank over here.
Big underground cable comes in over here.
This is an A-B switch.
So, I am on the grid, so it's off.
If I go down I'm on the battery system.
If I go up,
try to stick your camera in there,
then I go on my generator.
So this is a generator
that'll run the whole house
if I want to go gas generator.
-So, you can go solar, gas, or on grid.
-You have three ways?
-Yeah.
So, and the other thing is…
-That's in case the solar doesn't work?
Something happens maybe or
the nice thing about this is
this power goes into the house,
which goes back over there so I can
charge my batteries while this is running.
So, if I have a snowstorm or whatever…
you know, it's going.
But right now we're on gas generator.
We're off.
-[switch clanks]
-I'm going to hook up the EcoFlow system.
And then we'll go in,
and we'll just throw it online.
I've got everything running.
I've got the fountains running,
the aerators, all the lights.
Everything on.
-This is sort of your moment, right, Doc?
When you flip that switch,
and you're like, all my work…
We had
40 or 50 mile an hour winds out here.
Two years ago, we had a thunderstorm
come through, and we lost 21 trees.
We couldn't even get out.
We lost power for two days.
And we did not have this system in place.
We just had a generator.
So, we're hooked up in here now.
And so, all I've got to do is come in here.
And I have to…
This is the setup that everyone…
This is called an interlock switch.
This is what you have
when you have a generator.
You have to kill the main power
then you can turn this over,
and then you can turn your generator on.
So the reason why you do this is
if you're throwing power back to the grid,
and the lineman comes to work on it,
you'll end up killing them.
So, that's why
you have to have this by code.
-This shuts off the main.
-[switch clunks]
We're off.
So, now…
[beeping]
This is my app that controls that.
And the one thing I forgot to do
is I forgot to turn the AC power on.
So, that's why, when I switched it over…
So, now what I'm going to do
is I'm going to turn the AC power on.
So, it's communicating
to that system over there.
And what it will do now is it will show me
how much power is being taken out,
plus how much
is being fed in by the solar panels.
So right now on the solar panels,
I have about 2,400 watts going in.
And what's the wattage coming out?
About 2,300 watts
being used by the house.
So, we're all completely off grid.
Without even the solar that system
will run this house for two full days.
-Or more.
-Just off the battery power?
Just off the battery.
And if you're conservative, which is…
In my videos I talk about
something called a Miser Mode.
Turn off your hot water heater,
turn off your ac, turn off the big stuff.
Wi-Fi, lights, little basic stuff.
You can run
probably four days off that battery.
Why are you making videos
on this topic, Doc?
I've done it for years.
I've always sort of touched on it
but now I do a lot of testing.
I have different levels of it.
Like the $1,600, the $100.
Right. On your channel,
I've talked more about the lifestyle.
On your channel, you go very granular
on the technicality of things.
So for someone wanting to do this,
they would go to your channel.
Right. And pick up some of the videos.
I don't try and be an expert on it.
I sort of show you what I'm living with
and what I've learned.
-I'm sure a lot of trial and error.
Yes. Huge amount.
If you want to be great at something,
screw it up a whole bunch of times.
[chuckling]
-Okay, Doc, so most people
are not gonna be able to do this.
A, not have the money.
B, not have the time.
C, not have the skills.
They're not super handy.
It's going to be a ton of work
they don't want to do.
But you're saying almost everyone
can have some preparation.
Everyone.
And this is your kit?
If I was king for a day, I would mandate
that everyone had seven days.
Down at the beach house,
I have one of these containers
and a small generator.
-Beach house in Georgia?
-Yes.
I have one of these containers
and a small generator and that's it.
So, if we have a hurricane,
have one of these.
Now, these get heavy.
So, I recommend you get
one of these totes with wheels.
-So, this is seven days?
Actually, 14 really you could do.
I'm highly interested 'cause I'm not
gonna do what you've done today.
I'm out there making videos. Busy.
Don't have time for any of this stuff.
-Everyone should do this.
-Okay.
And this,
I didn't load it up
with 14 days' worth of stuff.
I just loaded up with examples
of stuff that you can do.
This is just simple stuff.
You go to Lowe's.
I mean, you go to Walmart,
Costco, whatever.
And see, the mistake people make
is they think that you got to buy in bulk
and then you got to vacuum seal,
you got to use oxygen packets.
It's just not true.
You can buy…
I actually prefer to buy small stuff
like little bags of rice, pasta.
Little things.
And it'll last for years.
People think that it doesn't, but it does.
So, as an example, I'mma
start throwing some stuff out at you.
Okay. What's this?
Emergency radio.
You can crank it, put it in solar.
This is the most amazing little thing
that you'll ever see.
That little stove runs off gasoline.
So, you take gasoline.
You have a can of gasoline in the house,
everyone does.
You can actually cook on that.
Besides your gas grill or whatever.
-Okay. You're in an apartment.
You don't have gasoline kicking around.
-Then…
-Propane?
-Go propane canisters.
-Yeah, you can have propane.
This is that little $100 backup system
I talked about right there.
So, this is…
You can plug in a laptop.
You've got USB charging.
It actually has
flashlights on as well too.
But it also comes with a solar panel.
You open up the solar panel,
you charge this with the sun.
-Okay.
-Really cool.
-Most amazing product ever.
-What? Wipes?
Dude Wipes instead of toilet paper.
-You don't like toilet paper?
-Dude.
Once you try these,
you'll never go back. Trust me.
So, the Dude Wipes are high on the list.
-Didn't see that coming.
-Yeah.
This is a little water purification thing.
So, you can actually take pond water,
run it through the system
and it'll remove 99% of everything
including micros
and all that kind of stuff.
People don't think about lighters.
If you need a lighter,
people sometimes don't have lighters.
I don't smoke,
so you've got to have a lighter in here.
One of the biggest things
during Hurricane Helene was this.
Cash.
All the stores are down, the Wi-Fi is down.
Sorry, it's cash only.
There's a guy named Jeff Gray on YouTube,
and I've actually talked to him
and stole some of his video.
He was in line at a store
and people were crying
because they couldn't buy
what they needed because it was cash only.
They didn't have cash.
Fives, tens, and twenties.
-Get a bag of it, stick it in here.
-How much cash?
More the better, obviously.
Yeah, a hundred, two hundred bucks maybe.
Just throw it in here
and just forget about it.
Just don't worry about it.
Cash is absolutely critical.
Here's where you can have fun with this
if you have kids.
Have the kids participate.
Say, this is gonna be
one of our insurance boxes.
If we have a bad storm
and the power goes out,
you guys get to pick what you want
so you can put something in here.
The kids get excited about it.
So anytime, trust me,
if you have kids and a storm comes up,
they'll be like, "Can we get the box out?"
Because, you know, you're going to have…
Especially with young kids,
you know, coloring books and crayons.
So, you know, you can't touch this
unless the power goes out or whatever.
So you take a bad situation,
a hurricane, power loss, or whatever,
and the kids get excited about it
because they know they're prepared.
Plus, they feel secure,
which is kind of nice.
[Peter] Okay, food.
-Okay.
-Quaker Oats.
[Doc] I can't live without coffee.
-Coffee.
And you bag it all up.
-Some of it, like Bisquick.
Bisquick has a shelf life instead of flour.
Bisquick in a box has a shelf life
of one and a half years.
If you take it out and shrink wrap it,
you're about four years.
-Not the healthiest,
but it's going to survive.
-If you need to cook.
-Okay.
Crunchy granola bars,
if you shrink wrap it like this,
I'm telling you five years down the road
you can pull that out and eat it.
Here's a perfect example.
Instead of buying 50-pound bags of rice,
buy these are already in plastic.
Same thing with pasta.
You can get pasta that's in plastic.
We did a test.
We put this in a cabinet for four years,
pulled it out, and ate it just like this,
and it was perfect.
Four years later.
People think you have to do
special preparations.
You really don't.
Buy it in plastic, put it in a plastic bag.
But there's just
all kinds of stuff in here.
-Okay. So just have enough food rations.
We're talking two weeks
if you have this filled right.
Two weeks is all sitting right here.
-What about water?
Water,
you're gonna have to do that separately.
-You got your pump, but…
Yeah. You're going to have to have…
They make something called
a water bob, which fills the bathtub.
-Then you get a bunch of canned stuff.
And you got oils.
And then my favorite, I love Wendy's chili.
But you take rice,
throw some beef stew
on the rice or on the pasta,
chili, put it on the rice and pasta.
Simple stuff, you know?
One of the things I like to tell people is,
first, understand the difference
between a black swan and a gray swan.
A black swan is something
like 9-11 and COVID.
It's something that
you didn't think would happen,
something you're not prepared for,
something that just
catches you by surprise.
A gray swan is something that
everyone knows could happen,
but you sort of blow it off
because you don't think
it's really gonna happen.
And that's more of like the economy,
housing collapse, whatever.
And a perfect example, and I'll use this.
I like to use this as an example.
In 1855,
that right there, was worth 20 bucks.
If you adjust it for inflation,
it's worth $720 today.
If you have to buy this right now
because of the economy
and money printing, and national debt,
you'd pay $5,400 for that.
So you wonder why people worry about
little things like the economy and debt.
And what I tell people is,
make a list of what you worry about,
what are the things
that keep you up at night,
and then do some preparation for it.
And what I tell people is that
almost everyone has homeowner's insurance.
On a scale of 1 to 100,
what chance over the next 12 months
do you think your house is gonna burn down?
Almost everyone's
gonna say a one or a two.
-Not even.
-It's just not even a one or a two.
Okay. Well, what chance do you think
that we're going to have some type of
something happen in our country,
whether it's a COVID-style,
whether it's a Homeland Security attack?
What percentage do you think?
So you'll have homeowner's insurance
and you'll have car insurance
at maybe a one or a two,
but then you'll ask, people will say,
what do you think that there's a
percentage that the economy will collapse
or the power grid
will go down because of it?
And they'll say, oh man,
there's a good 10%, 20%,
but they don't do anything about it.
It's because it's not mandated, right?
Half of it's not mandated,
and it's that gray swan sort of stuff
where we just sort of,
we know that it's there,
but we just sort of don't worry about it.
Yeah. Okay, with the kit
you showed in the house,
is there a link?
You don't sell that kit, right?
It's just basic stuff you get at the store.
I've done a couple videos on it,
and matter of fact, what I'll do is,
I'll probably go ahead
and do a video showing more detail.
That would be great.
So by the time we get this out,
if that video's there,
that'd be great 'cause I'd like to watch.
I'm actually, after this,
you know, I'm on the high of it,
and then I'll get back to normal life
and busy and try to,
you know, sort of forget about it.
Uber Eats.
Right, but I'm going to make a point, Doc,
to do something like that.
Do it. Everyone should have it,
and what I'll do is I'll put up,
-I'll do a breakdown video next week.
-Awesome.
And then I'll actually show specifically
where you can get that stuff.
If you get that done
before I post this, I'll make sure,
guys, it will be at the end here.
-Link in the description.
-Something to click on.
Yeah, so, Doc, that was awesome.
Anything else you want to say, though?
I could go on for two more hours,
but I'll ruin your channel.
Let's go out here.
No, you've done nothing but good for it.
I love this stuff.
I find
the alternative living stuff fantastic.
But you'll notice,
I think the biggest message for me is,
you can call me a prepper. I don't care.
But the prepping mentality
of the old age is gone.
This is, I'm comfortable.
I don't worry about anything.
If this were to happen, I don't care.
If that were to happen, I don't care.
I'm just prepared.
I've taken that worry away.
Take your worries away
by just doing a little bit of something.
And now I go hunt, I go fish,
I travel, go to the beach, do whatever.
-And again, a lot of people
will watch this online and say,
oh, look at you.
You're wealthy. You can do this.
And look, you have a lot,
and you've worked your whole life for this.
-You didn't do this at 33, right?
-You can do it at any level.
But you can just step at a small level.
You can do one of those boxes
in there for a couple hundred bucks.
And to be fair, most people
don't want to do what it takes.
Even to have the hybrid style
that you have, it's a lot.
It's a lot of work.
And you have to really love it,
and prioritize it, and you're retired.
I always get…
You always get the haters on YouTube.
And they're like, if I had your money.
I say, well, dude, work 50 years,
seven days a week, and you might have it.
And it's funny.
I just watched a YouTube video online.
Sotheby's Auction.
Mm-hmm.
I watched a painting sell for a record
of $205 million for one painting.
And I'm like, dude, if I had his money…
Everyone says if I had their money.
So all in what you have here, you could
probably do it for a million dollars.
-Oh, yeah, much less.
-Much less?
Yeah. Yeah.
Depending on the land that you buy
and how far you, how extreme…
We spent a bunch of money on the renovation
that we probably didn't have to spend.
If you pick up the right property,
you could literally go hybrid.
Probably, I would say,
comfortably $50,000 to $75,000
on top of whatever the property cost
you could actually go to
sort of a hybrid like this.
-50 to 75?
-Yeah. It's not that much to do.
-Okay.
'Cause you can do real reasonable.
Nowadays, there's a price war going on
with all this electronic battery stuff.
The price wars have hit.
And they're starting to
really get competitive now.
Great stuff, Doc.
Appreciate it.
I love this stuff.
Guys, I want you to go to Doc's channel.
I'm going to leave it up around here.
Check out my other Georgia videos.
It's been a short series.
-That would be interesting.
-Three different videos in Georgia.
New territory for me.
Fascinating state.
And thanks for coming along, guys.
Until the next one.
[country music]